---
layout: default
---

# About

In Unity, [Realtime Global Illumination (Realtime GI)](https://docs.unity3d.com/2019.4/Documentation/Manual/realtime-gi-using-enlighten.html) using Enlighten is a powerful system for dynamically updating the GI.
Although Unity has deprecated RealtimeGI, it is still available and is the only officially supported way to update the GI at runtime.

---

KanikamaGI is an OSS that provides a way to dynamically update lightmaps in VRChat.

## Environment

- Unity2019.4.29f1
- VRChat SDK3
- [MerlinVR/UdonSharp](https://github.com/MerlinVR/UdonSharp)



## Sample Worlds

- [KanikamaGI](https://vrchat.com/home/launch?worldId=wrld_ebb1341f-15b5-4ca6-9f38-575dfb01bf01)

## Features

- Powered by UdonSharp and works in VRChat.
- Can update every frame accurately.
- Can be used with regular static lightmaps.
- Includes a variant of Stanard shader with Kanikama functionality.
- Supports [Directional Mode](https://docs.unity3d.com/2019.4/Documentation/Manual/LightmappingDirectional.html).

## Light sources

The following light sources are supported.

- Light components
  - Baked and Mixed are supported.
- Renderers with Emissive materials
  - Standard shader's emission is supported.
- Scene's Ambient Light
  - Allows you to change the brightness and color of Ambient Light.
- Monitors / Screens
  - Divides the screen into up to 16 grids, each of which is treated as a square surface light source, to approximate the screen color to the GI.

## Comparison with RealtimeGI

Advantages
- There is no frame delay in updating the GI.
- Less CPU load.

Disadvantages
- The position and angle of the light sources in the scene cannot be changed.
- Generates as many light maps as there are light sources, which increases Scene capacity and VRAM load.
- Does not support light probes.


## When should I use it?

When there is a lot of flickering of light sources (often by VJs), such as in a club world, RealtimeGI will not be able to update the GI without delay.
Also, if your world is going to have a lot of players and you can't handle the CPU load of RealtimeGI, KanikamaGI may be an option for you.

You need to be aware that it will increase the number of textures and the cost of drawing the static objects that GI will reflect.